David BLACK








github.com/bballdave025 | linkedin.com/in/thedavidwblack
| +1 801-376-4520  |
thedavidwblack@gmail.com
stackexchange.com/users/8693193 
| 75 Peregrine Ln. #8  Bountiful, UT  84010   USA


22 July 2023

FamilySearch International
Software Development - Information Technology
3201 North Garden Drive
Lehi, UT  84043
United States

To Whom It May Concern,

I am interested by the job posting for FamilySearch Sr Software Dev Engineer (Job ID 356975).

My qualifications match those you are seeking as follows:

Requirement:			Bachelor's or Master's degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering, or a related field.
My Qualifications:		I obtained my Master's degree in Physics in 2012, following a 
Bachelor's degree in Physics obtained in 2010. The research
portions of these two degrees were highly computational.
In my undergraduate research group, I helped compute basic
results in quantum physics for two different interpretations. My 
undergraduate thesis involved calculating electromagnetic fields
in and around particles trapped in a laser focus.
My graduate research was in nuclear and particle physics. This
involved many complex calculations not only to predict where
elementary particles would go after collisions but to reconstruct
the properties and paths of thousands to millions of particles per
collision. I was also heavily involved in the data flow and a quick
analysis thereof.

Requirement:			Collaborate with cross-functional teams to design, develop, and implement software solutions that align with business objectives and user needs.
My Qualifications:		I worked at CaptionCall, a company that provides speech-to-text services to the hard of hearing, for nearly five years. My work in 
a research team included the explicit responsibility to
communicate on various topics with stakeholders, upper
management, legal council, engineering, operations, user
interface design teams, and user experience analysis teams.
Since the process included people revoicing phone conversations,
there was an important training team with whom I also worked. I
also initiated communication in relation to the
speech-transcription process with the revoicers, the hardware
design teams, the customer- and technical-service  providers, and
others. This all helped to provide our research team with a view
of the needs at all vertical levels in the company which was also
thorough on the horizontal level.

One of my most-important criteria for a desirable work environment is matched by the opportunities you present.

Your Statement:		Continuous Growth: Engage in professional development  opportunities, attend conferences, and stay at the forefront of AI advancements.
Desire:				Involvement in the fast-moving progress of Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, especially as it relates to Neural Networks. I 
was exposed to this field during volunteer and then contractual 
work at FamilySearch where I worked with the Advanced 
Technology Research Team to create a process, based on Neural 
Networks, to extract information - especially names, dates, and 
relationships - from documents in multiple languages and from 
various time periods. I found the work to have many parallels to 
the work I had done in collider physics. I fell in love with using 
God's gift of machine learning to help with family history - a 
passion I have cultivated since my childhood. Being able to 
participate in the academic aspect of this exciting research, 
through attending conferences and staying abreast of new 
developments from academic papers and other sources, makes 
the opportunity of working with your team an extremely enticing 
one. 

I believe that these skills and my passion for family history make me an exceptional candidate for the aforementioned position. The work environment you provide makes FamilySearch an ideal organization for which I would like to work. I look forward to a personal interview to discuss the exciting opportunity of working for FamilySearch.


Cordially,

David Black
